Erkenfara Univeralis
Basic Rules:

Abstract:
Erkenfara Univeralis is an ethernal stategic boardgame for any number of competing empires.
These rules are on purpose keeped simple to ensure maximal flexibilty and easy bookkeeping.
Usually there is a simple basic rule, which can be modified by stati of participating parties.
For Example: An army might be exhausted and therefore have lower chances in battle.
This game has no inherent win or lose condition and can only function,
if all engaging parties and empires have an internal goal in mind while remaining open to the political aspectes of the game.
These rules define how economice and military mechanics function. 
It doesn't strive to simpulate how empire internal affairse function or how the empire engange with each other politically.

To guide in the interpretion of the rules, the design guildlines are defined here:
1. It is supposed to be an ethernal game. 
	a. no snowball mechanics.
	b. create breaks to slow winning parties down.
2. It is suppored to be a conflict simplation/stategic game.
3. It is supposed to work with any kind of map.
4. It is supposed to be easily modived to allow the integration of other games (paralell rollplay game/trading card game).
5. Keep it as simple as possible.


Table of Contents:
1. Order of Play
	a. Structure of a Round
	b. Tools of Play
2. The economy round
	a. Generate Income
	b. Pay Upkeep
	c. Build new Troops
	d. Update Region status
3. The military rounds
	a. Update Status
	b. Movement of Armees
	c. Resolve Conflict or take action
	d. Recovery of moral
4. Resolving Conflict
	
1. Order of Play
A round in Erkenfara Univeralis (short EU) consists of 1 economy round and 3 consecutive military rounds.
This round structure represents the four seasons starting with the economy round in winter.
While the military rounds occure in a fixed order one empire after an other taking a turn, the economy round can be performed simultanius.

Each Empire in EU is represented by 3 factors:
1. The treasurey
2. The regions owned by the empire
3. The armies executing the will of the empire

Each region and armee can be influenced by one or more status.

Regions can inhabit up to one land armee and up to one see armee.
In addition to that, each region if one of 3 types.
Seeregion, landregion or fortification.
Seeregions can be traversed by any armee, have no production value and can't be owned by any empire.
Landregions can't be travesed by see armees, have a production value and can be owned by an empire.
Fortifications are a special kind of landregions. They only are adjacend to a single landregion and have 1-4 level of fortification.

Each armee has a current and maximal value and a location.
The location is the current region the armee resides in.
The value of an armee is both it's production cost and it's measure of strength.
If for any reason and at any time the current value of an armee drops below 1000, the armee is scatterd and removed from the game.
Armees differentiate real and moral damage. Once real damage is sustained, there is no possibillity to regain it.
Moral damage on the other hand regeneates at the end of the empires military turn.
In additon to that each armee if one of two types:
See armee or Land armee.
See armees can only exist in see regions and are quicker than land armees.
Land armees can exist in any region, but do no take part in conflicts resolved in a see region.
	They are eigher protected by a see armee or are destroy outright.

2. The economy round:
During the economy round all empires can go through the following steps in parallel.
	a. Generate Income
	b. Pay Upkeep
	c. Build new Troops
	d. Update Region status
	
a) Generate Income
Each region generates it's production value in gold and adds it to the treasurey.
This production might be modived by the following condition:
	Taxed/Plundered: A taxed/plundered region is considert to have a production value of zero.
	Salted/Burned: A salted region is considert to have a production value of zero and will next round still be taxed/plundered.
	Occupied: An occupied region doesn't provide it's production value to the owner, but instead provide 20% of it's production to the occuping empire.
	
b) Pay Upkeep
Sustaining an armee is a costly matter and the bigger it gets the highter the expanses get.
At this point the value of any owned armee may be reduced to any lower number.
The remaining maximal value of all owned armees is summed up and used to calcualte the cost of upkeep using this formular:
Upkeep Cost f(x) = (3/140000)*x^2 - 1,35714285714286 *x + 21428,5714285713
Exception: Should your total army value be below 30.000, the upkeep cost is 0.

c) Build new Troops
Now it is time to build new armees and reinforce the existing ones. This process is call raising troops.
The amount of gold that can be used to raise troops is limited to the total production value of the entire empire at the current time.
There is no limit to the amount of troups that can be raised at a specific location, but troups can only be raised at specific location.
These location are owned fortifications not affacted by a negative status,  owned see regions adjacend to fortifications with no negative status or enemy armee inside
and rested armees in owned regions not affacted by a negative status.
Each gold coint spend to added to both the current and the maximal value of the armee.

d) Update Region status
The last step in the economy round is update the status in each region.
Remove all the taxed/plundered stati, convert all salted stati to taxed/plundered.
Occupied is not canged.

3. The military rounds
In a military round each empire takes a turn in turn order.
During it's miltary turn each empire performes the following steps:
	a. Update Status
	b. Movement of Armees
	c. Resove Conflict or take action
	d. Recovery of moral
	
a) Update Status
Clear each owend armee from each status it has. This includes both negative and positive stati like exhaustion and well rested.
If the status of a region (like dangerousm, bare or salted/burned) affects an armee locationed in it, resolve them now.

b) Movement of Armees
Move all armees of an empire of at the same time. 
Land armees may move up to 1-2 regions without penalties or 3-4 regions and get the exhausted status.
See armees may move up to 1-4 region without penalties or 5-8 regions and get the exhausted status.
During this movement a armee may move in a region with an enemy armee, but not trough it.
If needed any owned armee may be split into smaller armees at no additional cost at the start of movement.
Should any region after moving updating the locaitons of all armees now contain more than one land armee unite them into one single land armee. Do the same with each see armee.
These united armees have each status of the participating armee, all though each pair of well rested and exhausted cancels each other.

c) Resolve Conflict or take action
Should one of your armees now stand in the same region as an enemy armee it is time to resove a conflict with *glorius* combat.
As this will be a longer segment, it is be addrest after the military turn is completly defined.
For now it is enough to understand that all participating armees may sustain a reduction to their current and/or maximal value and one or both armees will be destroy and/or retreat to an adjacend region.
Should an armee retreat it gets the exhausted status and must move to an ajacent region with no enemy troups in it. 
If more than one armee retreat they are resolved in turn order, starting with the next empire in that order, such that the current empire resolves last.

If an armee is not resoving a comflict it may perform any of the following action with the region it is currently in:
	i) plunder/tax: Add the production value of the region to the armee's empire treasurey.
		The region gets the taxed/plunders status. (Its production value is now considerd zero)
	ii) salten the land/burn the earth: This works similar to plunder/tax but the region gets the status salted/burned instead of taxed/plunders.
	iii) siege: If the region is adjacend to a fortification, one of these fortificaitons gets the besieged status.
			Should at the start of any turn the ajacent region of besieged fortification not contain an enemy armee, the besieged status is removed.
	iv) occupy/free the region: The region gets to occupied status by the current empire or the occupied status is removed.
	v) rest and recover: If an armee didn't move and takes this action it get's the well rested status.

d) Recovery of moral
At the end of the empire's military turn, the current value of all their armees becomes the maximal value.

After this the next empire in turn order takes it's military turn, until all have taken a turn and the next round beginns.

4. Resolving Conflict
When resolving conflict in *glorius* combat it is done between to sides in the following steps:
1. Calculate the current total strenght of both sides:
	Simple announce the current value of each armee, this is their strengh.
2. Calcuate the strenght advantage of the bigger Armee:
	A = current Value Stronger Armee, B = current value weaker Armee, Strenght advantage = (A-B)/B in % or (A/B) in percent - 100%
3. Determin the Strategic Advantage of each side.
	For each side please consult the stragegic advanage table and determin the total advantage in %
		well rested status +10%
		exhausted status -20%
		Defending main homeland +20%
		Fortification level 1-4 +10% per level
		In enemy territory -20%
		Last Stand (No retreat possible) +30%
		Heros in the Armee +3% / Grad
		Enchantment Trading Cards level 1-3 +10% per leve
4. Roll the dice and add advantages:
	Each side rolls a w100/w% and adds it's strategic advantage and the stronger armee also adds it's strengh advantage.
	The higher result it considert the winner, the lower result is considert the loser
5. Determin loses
	Subtract the losers result from the winners result and consult this table for the damage each side sustain.
	The damage is allways a percantage of the current or maximal value that is deducted from the respective stat.
		Difference			Winner 							Loser takes damage
		-+50     Draw	   10% of current + 5% of maximal		10% of current +  5% of maximal
		51-100   Minor	   10% of current + 5% of maximal		20% of current + 10% of maximal
		101-200	 Major	    5% of current + 5% of maximal		30% of current + 15% of maximal
		201+     Superior  10% of current + 5% of maximal		100% of current + 50% of maximal
6. Retreat
	Should any armee now be reduced below a current value of 1000 it is disbanded and removed from the game.
	Each side desides simultanius if they want to abonden the conflict and retreat.
	If none retreat the conflict start a new and the steps 1-6. have to be repeated.
	If one side retreats moves to a adjacent region and the remaining side stays in the region.
	Should both armees retreat, the defender decides first where to retreat to.
	








